---
layout: page
title: CMIP6 Data Hackathon
menu_title: Home
menu_icon: house-door
---

{:.secondary}
# in association with Bristol, Met Office, Exeter, Leeds & UCL

<div class="aside">
    <h2><i class="bi bi-calendar3"></i> Event timeline</h2>
    <dl>
        <dt>17 March 2021</dt>
        <dd>
            Applications open for participants<br>
            {% if site.registration_status == 'open' %}
                <a href="{% link registration.md %}" class="btn">Register now</a>
            {% elsif site.registration_status == 'closed' %}
                <a class="btn disabled">Registration has closed</a>
            {% elsif site.registration_status == 'soon' %}
                <a class="btn disabled">Registration opens soon</a>
            {% endif %}
        </dd>

        <dt>16 April 2021</dt>
        <dd>Applications close</dd>

        <dt>2–4 June 2021</dt>
        <dd>Hackathon date</dd>
    </dl>
</div>

Scientists from the Universities of Bristol, Exeter and Leeds, and the Met
Office are hosting a three-day hackathon on **2–4 June**, open to all UK
researchers in the field, to produce cutting-edge research using [Climate Model
Intercomparison Project 6 (CMIP6)
data](https://esgf-index1.ceda.ac.uk/projects/cmip6-ceda/). We aim to showcase
outputs from the hackathon at the upcoming [COP26](https://ukcop26.org/)
delegation in November, and through peer-reviewed publications.

Researchers can sign up to [topics ranging from]({% link projects.md %}) climate
change to oceanography, biogeochemistry, and more. Teams will be led by senior
academics from a range of disciplines at [the partner universities]({% link
about.md %}#the-met-office-academic-partnership), but participating researchers
can be from any UK academic institution. [This opportunity]({% link
registration.md %}) is open to early career
researchers[<sup>(?)</sup>][faq]{:title="What do we mean by an Early Career
Researcher (ECR)?"}.

Participation is open to **researchers from any UK academic institution**, and
we encourage contributions from **early career
researchers**[<sup>(?)</sup>][faq]{:title="What do we mean by an Early Career
Researcher (ECR)?"}, including PhDs and Postdocs.

## Logistics

The event will take place virtually, using a combination of **video
conferencing** (e.g. Zoom) for meetings and seminars, and **discussion forums**
(e.g. Slack) for ongoing comms. Data holding and analysis will take place on
[JASMIN](https://www.jasmin.ac.uk/), the UK's data analysis facility for
environmental science, which also provides a copy of the CMIP6 data.

## Outputs

By the end of the event, we hope to have two or three core figures per research
question, that show new insight into the field, using CMIP6 data. The figures
will form the basis of material for COP26, and for peer-reviewed publication.

[faq]: {% link faq.md %}
